Project requirements change, your application now needs to capture more information from the user. So what do you do? In Rails, we create a migration plan, and in this lesson we'll show you how easy it is to do just that.

Migrations are a convenient way to alter your database schema using Ruby instead of SQL. You might be thinking "why not just write it in SQL?" and the answer is "for flexibility." Using Ruby allows the schema and databases changes to be database independent. If you were to write SQL by hand it wouldn't be compatible with MySQL, SQLite, and PostgreSQL becuase they each have different SQL requirements. Writing a migration file in Ruby allows Rails to output the right SQL for whatever database you end up using.

With that benefit in mind, let's look at how we can create a migration for this simple application we created in our lesson about scaffolds.

Imagine that our game designer now wants to display a retro-style high-score screen that looks a bit like this. For this arcade game we're already able to display the name of the game and the score. This new column is for capturing the initials of the player that got the high score. Adding this one new field is simple, and we can use a rails generator to quickly create our migration plan.

```
bundle exec rails generate migration AddInitialsToHighScore initials:string
```
The generate migration option tells rails to generate a migration file for our project.

The "AddInitialsToHighScore" is what our migration file name will be. This parameter follows the pattern "Add X To Y" or "Remove X From Y" if you were planning to remove a column from your database schema. It's just important to clearly name your migration file so you can tell what a migration will do without having to open it up and inspect the code.

The last bit tells the generator the name of the column we want to add and what type it is.

We could add any number of columns as parameters to the end of this call, and Rails will prepare the migration file to accordingly include all our requested updates.

```
bundle exec rails generate migration AddInitialsToHighScore initials:string thingx:string scorex:integer 
```
You can find all the potential column types and how they map to your database here: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/17918117/rails-4-datatypes

But for now we'll just leave it as one new column addition to our schema:
```
bundle exec rails generate migration AddInitialsToHighScore initials:string
```


Executing this command and we see it generated a new file in /db/migrate as we expected. Opening it up and we can see it has a change method and the Ruby code that'll add the initials column to our HighScores table.

So now all we need to do is
```
bundle exec rake db:migrate
```

That runs our migration plan and adds the column to our database. Now we simply need to edit our views and controllers to support this new field. Let's do that quickly by adding a little HTML to our edit and show views.

```
... html snippet ...
```

And in our controller we have to allow this parameter to be passed to the Model.

Now while using our application we can record initials with the highscore. Mission accomplished!