#Gems: basics

In this lesson we are going to learn the basics of gems, bundler and the Gemfile.

## What is a Gem?

First, let's talk about gems. Ruby software is usually distributed as gems which are independent software packages.
You can see the gems already installed in your system using the command:
```
  gem list
```

For instance, here you can see Rake which is a gem installed by default with your Ruby. Thanks to this, you can use Rake anywhere in your system.
If you do not have them installed you can install Rails and Bundler by executing:
```
  gem install rails
  gem install bundler
```

'gem install' will always find the latest version of the gem requested and install it.

Installing gems via the 'gem install' command is perfect when you want to install utilities in your system, but it doesn't  scale that well with the complex requirements of Rails projects. Luckily Rails has a method for packaging all its gems in such a way that we don't need to manually install everything.

## The Gemfile

Now that we have installed Rails, let's just create a new RubyOnRails project to see how simple it is to manage gems. Any name will do. In the terminal we execute:
```
rails new superproject
```

Among the autogenerated files we have one file named 'Gemfile'.
This file specifies all the gems our project is using.

It is a best practice to write all the gems your project depends on here. This makes your project is self-contained and that makes it easier to setup on different machines.

Rails will automatically load all the software provided by these gems when it starts up. So you can use any functionality provided by them from anywhere in your project. These gems are not available outside your Rails projects. They do not pollute your machine or affect any other project you may have in the same system.

So let's add a new gem to the Gemfile. For simplicity let's just uncomment the Unicorn gem.

When we modify something in the Gemfile we need to execute one command to actually download and install the software. In the terminal we write:
```
bundle install
```

Bundle finds the newest version of the requested gems which satisfies any of the constraints we have on its installation.
In the output by Bundler we can see how the Unicorn gem was downloaded and installed.

Now we can use this specific gem in our project by typing
```
bundle exec unicorn
```
in the terminal.

We are using 'bundle exec' before 'unicorn' to make sure we are executing the exact version we have specified in our Gemfile and not any other version that may happen to be in our system. This ensures that everyone working on this project will have the same experience.


This is all for understanding the basics. We have covered 'gem', 'bundle' and the 'Gemfile'. In other lessons in this series we'll learn about versioning gems and more advanced Gemfile topics.