# Gems: versioning in the Gemfile

In this lesson we'll learn how to version the gems we will be using in our project.
Let's open the Gemfile again and look at the constraints we can add to our gems.
In the default Gemfile created by Rails for a new project we can see a few restrictions already in place.

## Pinned down versions

Let's start with the first gem:
```
 gem 'rails', '4.1.6'
```

This line says we want to install version 4.1.6 of Rails and no other version. If Bundle can not find that specific version it will return an error that Rails could not be found with that specific version.

The next gem:
```
gem 'sqlite3'
```
Does not have any constraints. Without the second parameter, we are saying that any version of 'sqlite3' should work with this project. Bundle will try to install the highest version of this gem that it can find.

This is dangerous because 'sqlite3' could release a new version in the future which breaks compatibility and we may not discover the problem till after deployment.

So it's a best practice to specify the version you need in the Gemfile.


## Constrained versions

But before we solve this problem, let's look at the next gem:
```
gem 'sass-rails', '~> 4.0.3'
```

This gem is using the tilde and greater than sign '~>', otherwise known as the twiddle-wakka operator in Ruby. The twiddle-wakka operator means that the last number on the version can freely change but any other number is pinned down.
For instance
```
~> 4.0.3
```
Can become
 4.0.4 or 4.0.10 but never 4.1

If we had:
```
~> 4.0
```
Then we could upgrade to 4.1, 4.2, etc but never to 5.0

Knowing this we can constrain the 'sqlite3' gem to something that makes sense:
```
gem 'sqlite3', '~> 1.3'
```

This way our project will not attempt to upgrade to version 2.x which probably would be a major version breaking compatibility, but still enjoy updates in the 1.x branch.

## Groups

Let's look at this other section of the file:
```
gem 'spring',   group: :development
```

We might occasionally see this as:
```
group :development do
  gem 'spring'
end
```

This means the gem 'spring' belongs to the development group of gems. This is important because we can do something like this in the terminal:
```
bundle install --without development
```

which is a very common command when we deploy our application and avoid installing extra software we do not need. As Rails by default will load all the gems at initialization, the less gems we install the faster it will initialize and less problems we may find with third-party software when running our project.

Well, that's all for this lesson. We learned some 'Gemfile' best practices for grouping and versioning of gems.

Thanks for watching!

