#Gems: basics

In this lesson we are gonna learn the basics of gems, bundler and the Gemfile.

## What is a Gem?

First, let's talk about gems. Ruby software is usually distributed as gems which are independent software packages.
You can see the gems already installed in your system using the command:
```
  gem list
```

You can see for instance Rake which is a gem installed by default with your Ruby. Thanks to this, you can use Rake anywhere in your system.
If you do not have them installed you can install Rails and Bundler by executing:
```
  gem install rails
  gem install bundler
```

'gem install' will always find the latest version of the gem requested and install it.

This is very good when you want to install utilities in your system but does not really work well with projects. Somehow we would like that a project comes with all its gems and do not depend on us installing external software to make it work. Let's see how it is done

## The Gemfile

Now that we have installed Rails, let's just create a new RubyOnRails project. Any name will do. In the terminal we execute:
```
rails new superproject
```

Among the autogenerated files we have one file named 'Gemfile'.
This file specifies all the gems our project is using.

It is a best practice to write all the gems your project depend on here, this way your project is self-contained and it is easier to start working with it on different machines.

Rails will automatically load all the software provided by these gems when it starts up. So you can use any functionality provided by them from anywhere in your project. These gems are not available outside your Rails projects. They do not pollute your machine or affect any other project you may have in the same system.

Let's add a new gem to the Gemfile. For simplicity let's just uncomment the Unicorn gem.

When we modify something in the Gemfile we need to execute one command to actually download and install the software. In the terminal we write:
```
bundle install
```

Bundle finds the newest version of the requested gems which match all other installed gems and the constrains we have on its installation.
In the output by Bundler we can see how the Unicorn gem was downloaded and installed.

Now we have use it in our project
```
bundle exec unicorn
```

We are using 'bundle exec' before 'unicorn' to make sure we are executing the exact version we have specified in our Gemfile and not any other that may happen to be in our system. This ensures that everyone working on this project will have the same experience.


This is all for understanding the basics. We have covered 'gem', 'bundler' and the 'Gemfile'. In a later lesson we will learn about versioning and other advanced topics.