# Introducing Rails' Terminal Commands
There are a few commands that are absolutely critical to your everyday usage of Rails. In this lesson we will briefly review six of them:

- rails new
- rails server
- rails generate
- rails console
- rails dbconsole
- rails runner

Let's create a simple Rails application to step through each of these commands in context.

# rails new
Creating a new Rails application is as easy as calling the 'rails new' command. For instance
```
rails new commandsapp
```

'rails new' autogenerates a default project with the name you provide in the parameter. You've got the entire Rails directory structure now with all the code you need to run a simple application right out of the box.

This command also has several options you can play with.
```
rails new --help
```

All commands can run with -h or --help to list more information.


# rails server
The rails server command launches a small web server named WEBrick which comes bundled with Ruby. You'll use this any time you want to access your application through a web browser.

With no further work, rails server will run our new shiny Rails app:
```
cd commandsapp
bundle exec rails server
```

You can also use the alias "s" to start the server:
```
bundle exec rails s
```

By default the server runs on port 3000. If you are running it in your own machine for instance, it will be located in localhost:3000
The server can be run on a different port using the -p option.

The default development environment can be changed using -e.
```
bundle exec rails server -e production -p 4000
```

To check all other options run the command:
```
bundle exec rails server --help
```

# rails generate
The rails generate command uses templates to create a whole lot of things. Running rails generate by itself gives a list of available generators:
```
bundle exec rails generate
```

You can also use the alias "g" to invoke the generator command: rails g.
```
bundle exec rails g
```

Using generators will save you time with prewritten boilerplate code, writing migrations for your database and other tasks.
Generators are complex so we have dedicated another lessons to show how to work with them, so be sure to review that lesson to learn more.


# rails console
The console command lets you interact with your Rails application from the command line. On the underside, rails console uses IRB, so if you've ever used it, you'll be right at home. This is useful for testing out quick ideas with code and changing data server-side without touching the website.

You can also use the alias "c" to invoke the console:
```
bundle exec rails c
```

For instance let's run some code here:
```
Rails.root.to_s
Rails.env
```
This code gets the directory where our application is installed. In this way we can play with any code.

You can also specify the environment in which the console command should operate.
```
bundle exec rails console test
```

If you wish to test out some code without changing any data, you can do that by invoking:
```
bundle exec rails console --sandbox.
```

Any modifications you make in this mode will be rolled back on exit

# rails dbconsole
rails dbconsole figures out which database you're using and drops you into the command line interface for it (and figures out the command line parameters to give to it, too!). It supports MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite and SQLite3.

You can also use the alias "db" to invoke the dbconsole.
```
bundle exec rails db
```
Here we can execute any SQL:
```
.databases
```
Which is a command of the SQLite database.

# rails runner
runner runs Ruby code in the context of Rails non-interactively. For instance:
```
bundle exec rails runner "puts Rails.env.to_s"
```
You can also use the alias "r" to invoke the runner: rails r.

You can specify the environment in which the runner command should operate using the -e switch.
```
bundle exec rails runner -e test "puts Rails.env.to_s"
```

That's all for this lesson. Take some time playing with these commands in the RailsMania cloud environment. If your project gets destroyed, don't worry, delete it and create a new one with 'rails new'. 
Thanks for watching.


