[Jordi]
# Generators in Rails

In this lesson we are going to show how to work with a some very useful generators in Rails.
Generators automate the creation of usable code that follows the predictable patterns and conventions that Rails expects applications to adhere to. In other words, generators help you quickly create the classes and code that your application needs. So let's take a look at how to use generators.

We can see all the generators available by executing the Rails generate command:
```
bundle exec rails generate
```

Let's try one of these generators. We are going to generate our own controller. But what are the arguments for this command? Let's ask the generator:
```
bundle exec rails generate controller
```

This command will give us the list of options we can use. The controller generator is expecting the parameters ControllerName action1 action2. Let's make a Greetings controller with an action of hello, which will say something nice to us.
```
bundle exec rails generate controller Greetings hello
```

What all did this generate? It made sure some directories were created, then it created a controller file, a view file, a functional test file, a helper for the view, a JavaScript file and a stylesheet file.

Let's check out the controller file. There are several methods already here. They provide all the actions needed to act upon a resource. In this case our resource is a greeting.
Let's make some small modifications to the controller we just generated:
```
class GreetingsController < ApplicationController
  def hello
    @message = "Hello, how are you today?"
  end
end
```
And add a route for this new action in config/routes.rb:
```
resources :greetings do
  member do
    get 'hello'
  end
end
```

Then the view, to display our message (in app/views/greetings/hello.html.erb):
```
<h1>A Greeting for You!</h1>
<p><%= @message %></p>
```

Fire up your server using rails server.
```
bundle exec rails server
```

And visit the path '/greetings/hello' in your url.

With a normal Rails application, your URLs will generally follow the pattern of http://(host)/(controller)/(action), and a URL like http://(host)/(controller) will hit the index action of that controller.

The controller generator is great when we do not have data in the DB connected to this controller. This example was an instance where we just display a greeting without retrieving any data from the DB. The next lesson segment in this series will demonstrate how to generate complete resourceful applications that are database backed.

# rails destroy
But for now, I wanted to quickly share another rails command that you'll want to remember when using generators. And that is: 'rails destroy'

Think of destroy as the opposite of generate. It'll figure out what generate did, and undo it.
For instance, if we generate a new controller:
```
bundle exec rails generate controller Oops
```

And right after generating it we quickly regret the name we chose for this controller, we can destroy all the generated files with one quick command:
```
bundle exec rails destroy controller Oops
```

So, that's how you can use generators to quickly create controllers and their associated files. If you have any questions or comments,  visit RailsMania.com and let us know!
