By now you already know about generators and how to find and use them to create controllers in your application. Now we're going to cover a much more interesting and advanced generator called 'scaffold'.

Scaffolding in Rails generates all you need for a database-backed, resourceful web application. It generates a model, a database migration for that model, a controller to manipulate it, views to display and manipulate the data, and a test suite for each resource.

# How to Generate Scaffolding

To demonstrate, let's set up a simple resource called "HighScore" that will keep track of our highest score on video games we play.
```
bundle exec rails generate scaffold HighScore game:string score:integer
```
In this command we tell scaffold that we want our application to have a resource called "HighScore" and that it should have a property "game" that is string and another property "score" which is an integer.

The scaffold generator creates the views, controller, model files with proper contents; it also creates the database migration for HighScore (the migration file will create the high_scores table and fields in our database). The scaffold generator also takes care of the resourceful routes for our "HighScore" resource, and even creates unit test placeholders for everything.

Because we have a new migration, our next step is to simply run our migrations, we can do that with the command:
```
bundle exec rake db:migrate
```
We explain more about database migrations in another series, but for now you should just know that this command will run the Rails code living in the 20130717151933_create_high_scores.rb file in order to modify the schema of our database. The code on that file creates a high_scores table in the database with the column names and types we specified when running our scaffold generator.

# It's Alive!

So now it's time to see the application that the Rails scaffold generator created for us.
```
bundle exec rails server
```

Go to your browser and open the server url with the path /high_scores. All this html and functionality you are seeing was automatically generated. This is all functional for your typical CRUD requests, so we can already create new high scores (55,160 on Space Invaders!).
Note how all the views show the two properties (game and score) we
specified in our scaffold. We can provide many properties when we
scaffold, creating complex applications very simply.

Scaffold also generated code in your controller to access your data via
an API. You can navigate to high_scores.json to get a API friendly
representation of your high scores.

We have only used the scaffold generator in this lessons but rails has other generators. Execute:
```
bundle exec rails generate
```
To get a list of all the generators in your project. Aside from the standard set provided by rails, other gems can install their own generators in your project - so don't be surprised to see generators in your project that are not shown in this video.

# Destroy Scaffolding

Well, that's it for this review of the scaffold generator in Rails. But before going, I wanted to point out that the "rails destroy" command also works when you need to remove scaffolding. In this example, all we'd need to do is run

```
bundle exec rails destroy scaffold HighScore
```

And as you can see, Rails has kindly deleted all the generated files and code. Easy breezy.
