# What is "Resourceful Routing" in Rails?
In this lesson we're going to review resourceful routing in Rails. But first we need to define what a resource and resourceful route is.

# Resources
A resource is simply some object that your application will perform create, read, update and delete operations on. In Rails, any route provides a mapping between URLs to controller actions, and by Rails conventions, each action also maps to a particular Create/Read/Update/ or Delete operation on a resource. For instance, a photos table in your database that your application operates on would be a photos resource. And that photos resource would have a PhotosController that performs those create / read / update and delete operations on it.

Now to understand what "Resourceful Routing" means in Rails, let's take a look at how you'd typically route those create, read, update, and delete operations.

# Resourceful Routing
Browsers request pages from Rails by making a request for a URL using a specific HTTP method, such as GET, POST, PATCH, PUT and DELETE. Each method is a request to perform an operation on a resource. You can easily map all those operations to the controllers and actions associated with your resources by writing routes like this:

get	'/photos', to: 'photos#index'  #display a list of all photos
get	'/photos/new', to: 'photos#new'	#return an HTML form for creating a new photo
post '/photos', to: 'photos#create'	#create a new photo
get	'/photos/:id', to: 'photos#show' #display a specific photo
get	'/photos/:id/edit',	to: 'photos#edit'	#return an HTML form for editing a photo
put	'/photos/:id',	to: 'photos#update'	#update a specific photo
delete '/photos/:id', to:	'photos#destroy'	#delete a specific photo

However, over time that can be both repetitive and prone to mistakes unless you follow some conventions. Lucky for us, Rails already has some great conventions, and you can get all those routes by only typing this single line in the routing file:

resources :photos

The "resources" keyword will create seven different routes in your application, all mapping to the Photos controller. Because the router uses the HTTP verb and URL to match inbound requests 4 specific URLs map to seven different actions. Specifically

```
get	   '/photos', to: 'photos#index'  #display a list of all photos
post   '/photos', to: 'photos#create'	#create a new photo
get	   '/photos/new', to: 'photos#new'	#return an HTML form for creating a new photo
get	   '/photos/:id', to: 'photos#show' #display a specific photo
put	   '/photos/:id',	to: 'photos#update'	#update a specific photo
delete '/photos/:id', to:	'photos#destroy'	#delete a specific photo
get	   '/photos/:id/edit',	to: 'photos#edit'	#return an HTML form for editing a photo
```

/photos (both GET for listing all photos in the collection and POST for creating a new photo in the collection)
/photos/new (only GET for receiving an HTML form guiding how you would submit the right data to create a new photo)
/photos/:id (GET, PUT, and DELETE for viewing, updating, and likewise deleting a specific member of the collection respectively)
/photos/:id/edit (only GET for receiving an HTML form guiding how you would submit the right data to edit an existing photo)

# Resource Routing: the Rails Default
So "Resourceful Routing" allows you to quickly declare all of the common routes for a given resourceful controller. Instead of declaring separate routes for your index, show, new, edit, create, update and destroy actions, a resourceful route declares them in a single line of code.

Now when your Rails application receives an incoming request for:

DELETE /photos/17
it asks the router to map it to a controller action. If the first matching route is:

resources :photos
Rails would dispatch that request to the destroy method on the photos controller with { id: '17' } in params.


# Defining Multiple Resources at the Same Time
By the way, if you need to create routes for more than one resource, you can save a bit of typing by defining them all with a single call to resources.

resources :photos, :books, :videos

This works exactly the same as if you had typed them all out just like this:

resources :photos
resources :books
resources :videos

# Limiting RESTful Actions
So resourceful routing is a pretty nifty Rails convention to follow since it gives you a standard structure for your application routing. But sometimes your resources need something less than the default Rails resource routing provides.

For instance, maybe your application has a resource named "memories."

```
resources :memories
```
And don't want anyone to delete or edit your memories. So, to prevent that, you can specify a constraint that says you want everything except the edit and destroy methods are allowed.

```
resources :memories, except: [:edit, :destroy]
```

Or perhaps you want people to submit memories, so you can change that to be:

```
resources :memories, only: [:new, :create]
```
And that would only create the 2 routes needed for getting the form and posting it back to create a memory.

In this lesson we've learned what resources and resourceful routing is in a Rails application. In the next lesson on routes we'll learn how we can customize our resourceful routes to have more RESTful actions and options that the default that Rails provides, so be sure to check that out.

Thanks for watching!
