# Adding RESTful Routes to Resources
In this lesson we'll review how to add RESTful routes to your resourceful routes. That might sound a bit confusing, right? Well just keep in mind for now that RESTful routes are an HTTP convention, whereas resourceful routes are a Ruby on Rails convetion. By the end of this lesson you'll have a clearer understanding and you should be able to confidently alter your routes.rb file to include custom RESTful routes for your application. But if you're not already somewhat familiar with resourceful routing in Rails be sure to watch the previous lesson in this series dedicated specfically to introducing resourceful routes.

Alright, let's get started. In this Rails project we have a photos controller. And in it we have the resourceful methods for the index, new, create, show, edit, update, and delete operations.

```
class PhotosController < ActionController

  def index
    #display all our photos
  end
  
  def new
    #provide a form that users can submit to create a photo
  end
  
  def create
    #accept POST data from an HTML form and create a new photo object
  end
  
  def show
    #render an existing photo
  end
  
  def edit
    #provide a form that users can submit to edit an existing photo
  end
  
  def update
    #accept PUT/POST data for updating an existing photo object
  end
  
  def delete
    #accept a DELETE request to remove an existing photo object
  end

end
```

In our config/routes.rb file we can see that the "resources :photos" route is declared, that's all we need to create the resourceful routes.

## A Simple Scenario
Now let's assume that your product manager wants to have a way to preview photos in some special format and that it needs a very specific special URL like photos/id/preview 

```
  # requests to GET /photos/9/preview will show a special preview version of photo with id 9
  def preview
    #display a preview of the photo
  end
```

So now you need to add a route that isn't provided to you by default with resourceful routes. And with Rails that's not a problem. When you use resourceful routing you can still easily add new RESTful routes for this photos resource.

## What are collections? What are members?
In Rails speak there are two ways you'd add a new RESTful route to a resource. You'd either add a new route to the resource collection or to a member of the collection. There is a big difference between the two, so let's review each way in order.

```
resources :photos do
  collection do
    get 'preview'
  end # GET /photos/preview
  member do
    get 'preview'
  end # GET /photos/:id/preview
end
```

In the collection format the URL path /photos/preview will respond to GET requests. By rails conventions you'd use this type of path to route to operations that affect the entire collection of photos. In other words, if you wanted to preview all of the photos that are in your application you'd use a route like this.

In the member format the URL path /photos/id/preview will respond to GET requests. The ID is just a placeholder that would normally contain the object ID in your application. So, by Rails conventions you'd use a member route for operations that operate on a single object at a time.

In both the collection and member blocks, each route specifies the HTTP verb that will be recognized. You can use get, patch, put, post, or delete here.

In this scenario we just want to preview a single photo at a time, so the member route makes sense for us. With that in place, we can now access our controller action. And when a request comes in for /photos/17/preview we we'll receive that id of 17 in the params[:id] hash.

```
  def preview
    # GET /photos/17/preview now gives us params[:id] => 17
  end
```

When we inspect the routes using
```
bundle exec rake routes
```
we also see a new named path helper preview_photo_path that we can use in our views:

```

```
We'll talk more in depth about path helpers in another lesson in this series.

## The Magical "on" Key
There's one more thing I want to cover today, and that's the magical key "on." The "on" key can help us remove the block and thus a couple lines from this file. If we don't have multiple member routes, we can pass the key on: with value :member to essentially say the same thing.

resources :photos do
  get 'preview', on: :member
end

We can do this for collections as well. So on: :collection would define the preview route for the collection.

resources :photos do
  get 'preview', on: :collection
end

One gotcha that I want to point out here is that you may at some point accidentally forget to put the on: :collection or on: :member at the end of your RESTful route in your resources block. 

resources :photos do
  get 'preview'
end

When you do you might be surprised to find that it by default assumes you're adding a member route, but with a subtle and confusing difference. When we inspect the routes for that route we can see that it looks almost the same except the :id is now :photo_id. So the code in your controller will have to look in params[:photo_id]. I think this is confusing and a common tripwire for most beginners, so I really recommend you always use the block form.

```
resources :photos do
  member do
    get 'preview'
  end # GET /photos/:id/preview
end
```

To round out this lesson let's cover one thing that most Rails developers aren't aware of. In your resourceful routes you can use the on keyword to bolt routes onto existing resourceful actions.

## Adding Routes on top of Existing Actions

For instance to add a path segment on the already existing new action route use the :on shortcut:

resources :photos do
  get 'preview', on: :new # GET /photos/new/preview
end

This will enable Rails to recognize paths such as /photos/new/preview with GET, and route to the preview action of PhotosController. It will also create the preview_new_photo_url and preview_new_photo_path route helpers.

Well, that's it for this lesson. If you have questions or comments about anything please let us know!

Thanks for watching!